Your body requires iron
for many important functions.
One of its most important
is transporting oxygen.
Iron is the connector between oxygen
and red blood cells,
which carry it from your lungs
to the rest of your body.
Foods provide two forms of iron.
One form, called heme iron,
comes from animal sources
like red meat, poultry, and fish.
The other, non-heme iron,
comes from vegetables and grains.
These two forms have different structures
and are absorbed in different ways.
Before it can be dissolved and
absorbed in the small intestine,
non-heme iron must be converted
to a soluble form and bound to another substance.
Heme iron does not need to be
converted and bound to another protein.
It is absorbed in different receptor sites
from non-heme iron.
Most of the iron in your body
is stored in your liver,
spleen, and bone marrow
and released as needed.
Excess iron is stored in your liver and heart.
Too much can damage these organs.
Insufficient iron can make you feel tired,
weak, or irritable,
more prone to infections, and other problems.
Only a medical professional can determine
whether you have too little iron,
what’s causing it,
and what to do about it.
Some people are advised
to take iron supplements.
In the past, these were available only as
non-heme iron.
Due to the absorption process,
non-heme iron can cause
unpleasant effects, such as constipation.
heme and non-heme iron,
which increases absorption
and also reduce these unwanted effects.